OWASP Releases Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) Version 1.5 for Improving Software Security

OWASP SAMM v1.5 released to enhance the ability of organizations to measure and improve their software security

Feb 28, 2017, 12:15 ET from OWASP Foundation<http://www.prnewswire.com/news/owasp-foundation>


BEL AIR, Md., February 28, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- The OWASP Foundation today announced the release of OWASP SAMM v1.5. The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) is an open framework to help organizations formulate and implement a strategy for software security that is tailored to organization-specific risks. This new version 1.5 improves scoring precision by providing partial credit for meeting objectives.

SAMM enables organizations to steadily improve their software security posture over time. Applications are primary targets for cyber attackers, with application-layer vulnerabilities exploited as a point of entry in many recent high profile security breaches. The additions to OWASP SAMM are a direct response to the relentless occurrence of security breaches where vulnerable software allowed attackers to gain access to private, corporate data. The resources provided by SAMM aid in:

  *   Evaluating an organization's existing software security practices;
  *   Building a balanced software security assurance program in well-defined iterations;
  *   Demonstrating concrete improvements to a security assurance program;
  *   Defining and measuring security-related activities throughout an organization.

OWASP SAMM v1.0 was originally developed, designed, and written by Pravir Chandra in 2009.

OWASP SAMM v1.1 (March 2016) embedded practical experience in a Quick Start Guide combined with practical OWASP resources, such as OWASP Zed Attack Proxy Project and OWASP Application Security Verification Standard, to name a few.

OWASP SAMM v1.5 (February 2017) improves the granularity of scoring, allowing partial credit for achieving maturity benchmarks. [retweet this!<https://twitter.com/OwaspSAMM>] Now an organization will get credit for all the related work done in a practice, rather than having the base number held at the highest completed maturity level. Anyone who has filled out a SAMM assessment has had a discussion on whether to mark an answer yes or no, when it is honestly something in between. Version 1.5 addresses that need. By replacing the Yes/No answers with four graduated steps, the questions can be more accurately answered.  This coupled with the matching scoring system, makes it easy to see maturity improvements from projects and initiatives on a dashboard.  One of SAMM's goals is help organizations not only understand where they are, but to understand what works (or doesn't) for others in similar scenarios. The improvements in v1.5 and the future v2.0 will help bring that goal to fruition.

Release v1.5 includes enhancements and updates to the following components:

  *   SAMM Core Model document: Explains the maturity model with worksheets and guidance
  *   How-To Guide: Implementation guidance for conducting assessments with example case studies
  *   Quick-Start Guide: Simplified process and information to help get started with SAMM
  *   Updated SAMM Tool Box with interview forms and the ability to generate roadmaps, charts, and graphs

"Our main goal for version 1.5 was to support our large user community by incorporating their feedback and improving the measurement system of the model.", says Bart De Win, co-project leader of OWASP SAMM.

“We've already started using version 1.5 of the tool internally, and we've gotten an enthusiastic response to the enhanced scoring and easy-to-generate charts." – Mike Craigue, Dell Cybersecurity

"One of the main benefits of the updated scoring model is that you can visibly see improvement to your maturity score on the dashboard as initiatives are completed.  This can go a long way in building support for your Application Security Program.", says Brian Glas, SAMM project co-lead.

The OWASP SAMM project leaders are Sebastien Deleersnyder, Bart De Win, and Brian Glas.

To learn more, visit https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM

Follow OWASP SAMM on twitter: @owaspsamm<https://twitter.com/owaspsamm> For additional info owasp.foundation@owasp.org<mailto:owasp.foundation@owasp.org>

About OWASP
The OWASP Foundation came online on December 1, 2001. It was established as a not-for-profit charitable organization in the United States on April 21, 2004 to ensure the ongoing availability and support for our work at OWASP<https://www.owasp.org/>. OWASP is an international organization and the OWASP Foundation supports OWASP efforts around the world. OWASP is an open community dedicated to enabling organizations to conceive, develop, acquire, operate, and maintain applications that can be trusted. All of the OWASP tools, documents, forums, and chapters are free and open to anyone interested in improving application security. We advocate approaching application security as a people, process, and technology problem because the most effective approaches to application security include improvements in all of these areas.

SOURCE OWASP Foundation

RELATED LINKS

http://www.owasp.org<http://www.owasp.org/>

